NSG: Help me out and make sure we reinforce all of that, too.
Chloe Lannert: Sambov any, any word.
NSG: Is here.
NSG: Okay. Cool.
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful.
Chloe Lannert: Alright and we've got Trina. Great
Meg Hall: Yeah, yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Is that anyone else we're missing? No, we're beautiful, all right.
Meg Hall: Oh, sorry, quick! Question. The so the eirs they're just. There are 2 eirs. They're going to be here starting week 5 all the way up to week. The end of the program is that right?
NSG: Correct.
Meg Hall: And and then they'll be coming in every week. But then we'll do one on one separately on our own
NSG: Okay? Got it? Yeah.
NSG: Every week there's a guaranteed one on one with your eir, and there's the guaranteed Monday like Kpi session that occurs
Chloe Lannert: So Monday, small groups, and then one to ones can be scheduled at your convenience with your er Neil. Do you also wanna
Chloe Lannert: give a sneak preview of of Demo Day involvement
NSG: Oh, yeah, yeah. So that's the other thing that happens. So for those of you who don't know about our demo day. Our format is dynamic, in that we have a Q&A session, a product video, and a 1 min pitch that the CEO delivers, that Q&A is actually conducted by the Eio.
NSG: So you're on stage with them. So the more they know about you, and the more excited they are, and the more familiar they are with your business the better they're gonna make you look in conversation on stage.
NSG: So it's another reason to really invest in those relationships
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. And part of the reason we did that is, they get to lend some of their sort of social proof to your business, and the whole imagery of someone being interviewed on stage is, is really strong and has resonated really well, as far as making your demo video a product and an asset that you can continue to use. Well, after Demo day itself.
Chloe Lannert: All right.
Chloe Lannert: feedback. Some is going to be great, some is gonna be not so great as always. Keep an open mind. Everything is data. It's your business.
Chloe Lannert: Some eirs will be tough on you.
Chloe Lannert: Don't let it get you down. Some will be tougher than others. They'll challenge your assumptions about your product, your assumptions about your business, model yourselves as leaders, entrepreneurs as a whole. They will be challenged by the program. Team, mentors, investors, everything is sort of up for debate
Chloe Lannert: in mind again. The the biggest thing here across all of what we're going to talk about today. It's your business.
Chloe Lannert: All of this is data. So take it with a grain of salt.
Chloe Lannert: Make sure you're not developing a confirmation bias that's huge. Really, really, make sure you're considering each piece of data within the context that it's given
Chloe Lannert: was that
NSG: Chloe, Chloe, can we like unpack that line so don't develop a confirmation bias. I don't know if you want to elaborate. I'm happy to back you up. But I think that's really important to spell out
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, don't gravitate exclusively towards people who are telling you what you want to hear.
Chloe Lannert: It's really easy. We've we've laid out these goals and these assumptions about your business over the past couple of weeks. You're about to meet a ton of people who will agree with you, and who will disagree with you on all the assumptions that you've made. Make sure you're treating both with respect and consideration. It's really really easy to immediately like click and get along with people who are like, Yeah, you're doing everything right. Amazing.
Chloe Lannert: Make sure you're giving space for the opinions that are challenging or a little bit harder to digest. Take your time with them, give them consideration. But it's typically people who have enough experience to identify blind spots that you'd be missing and treating things with
Chloe Lannert: the consideration that they deserve, will will hopefully save you a lot of pain in the long run.
NSG: Yeah. One example of this is yesterday, right? I I noticed that there was an air of defensiveness, probably with with Merck
NSG: which
NSG: tracks, to be frank, like he is the type that can be all up in your your face, and like challenging in a way that not everybody appreciates. So I totally get that. But just know that more of that will happen in your fundraising conversations and your interactions with mentors, advisors, other operating people. Some of them are going to say stuff that borderline might offend you.
NSG: They're not gonna like your business. They think you're gonna fail. They think you're doing everything wrong. You've made these mistakes like, what were you thinking? Or you know, they're gonna say, weird stuff like that. And it's not always gonna feel great. But if you have a thick skin, and you develop that armor.
NSG: It's just data like Chloe said. So just take it all in because it is real. It is what someone actually thinks. And so every now and then, they might actually have something valid to share with you. So just be able to like, take all that in and process it, and don't let it get to you. And if you ever have any issues processing that kind of tough love, I can help, because I'm usually a pretty good like buffer and and hype man, for founders that tend to, you know, have have struggling moments like that
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, and just leaving time for digestion.
NSG: It's huge, that's what it looks like.
Chloe Lannert: This is a relic from Liliana. It'll feel like this, but make sure you leave time to process and sit with things. Decisions rarely rarely have to be made super quickly. Decisions made in haste are rarely good decisions. So
Chloe Lannert: just take your time with everything. You're gonna get a ton of advice developing that muscle like Neil said, prioritizing. What matters now?
Chloe Lannert: And and letting decisions wait? Not every decision needs to happen immediately, and getting excited for fresh opinions. When the Eir rotations shift over
NSG: And and with visitor whiplash like that. That word like that phrase didn't just come out of nowhere like we've been saying that it text us for over the past decade.
NSG: because, no matter how many times you say it, it still hits the founders really hard, because what happens is, you hear from 2030, 40 people within the period of 2 weeks, plus these eirs. And all of a sudden you've got all of these like competing perspectives and ideas and thoughts that you're gonna struggle to wrangle and make sense of. So as someone who's actually dealt with it before Verona, not to put you on the spot, but I didn't know if you had anything you wanted to share about this, because you went through this yourself.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah, it it
Ferrona Lie: I feel like it's sometimes hard to communicate what this means until you actually go through it yourself. So I can understand that some of you probably think that. Oh, it's not gonna happen for you to you, or the severity is not gonna be too bad. But just remember you're gonna do this for is it? Also 10 days 2 weeks?
Ferrona Lie: That's bad.
Chloe Lannert: 7 days.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah. So towards the end, you're going to be exhausted. You've listened to a hundred plus advice and take into account that your mental acuity would also decrease as well at the time, and so this will feel a lot
Ferrona Lie: more intense towards the end as well. And so take taking whatever that Neil and Chloe are going to tell you, and to help prepare for the next 2 2 weeks is gonna be it's gonna be fun
Meg Hall: I had a question about that, if I may. Yeah, yeah, cool. Because I think that's something that I really struggle with. We've been taking advice for a lot of people. And I really get very excited about one advice. And then, you know, you're like, Yeah.
NSG: And then you get to the next one, and you're like, this is the complete opposite of what they just said like, yes.
NSG: the whiplash
Meg Hall: If you have like.
Meg Hall: a particular thing like, I'm thinking, like some operational strategies to deal with this, because, like, for instance, my thinking right now is like, Okay, let's let's go through those 2 weeks and not act on any advice
NSG: Correct.
NSG: That's that's exactly that goes.
Chloe Lannert: Why we built it. Yeah. So we're sorry. Go ahead.
Meg Hall: No, no, this is one of my thinking about. Let's just because else I'm gonna get too excited about something. And that might be not the right thing to do. Do you have any tricks like that, or like
NSG: That's the trick.
NSG: That's exactly
NSG: exactly the trick like you literally called it just to be clear like that that works
NSG: the issue. We I'll tell you an exact, like a precise story of what happened. So the 1st time I did this 5 years ago, you know, whatever I thought it would be really cool
NSG: to tell the founders in real time
NSG: the additional feedback, because we do debriefs with the mentors after each day. So they meet with all of the companies, and then we have a final meeting with all of the mentors for that day, and we go. Okay. Now, let's have a conversation about all of the companies, and we we write down all of those notes, and then we we provide that feedback to you all.
NSG: So at 1 point of
NSG: it we thought it'd be helpful to share it in real time, like as we got the feedback that we thought was helpful, share it like the day of.
NSG: We realized that didn't work, because Alex, exactly what you said would would like the the founders and start changing everything in the moment for the next day.
NSG: That was bad.
NSG: So then, eventually we did it after the 1st week, and then for the second week.
Meg Hall: Okay.
NSG: And that was also bad.
NSG: Oh, okay.
NSG: Because then the founders would take a really long weekend, stressed out about all the additional feedback they got.
NSG: and try to change everything for the next week.
NSG: neither of those work. So what we can promise to you, Alex, is that if you trust us, and just for 2 weeks, present yourself as best you can, and have your conversations. But don't make any fundamental changes to your business until you've had chance to download all the info. We will provide those notes that we take in those private conversations with those with those mentors for you.
NSG: and we anonymize them, because what gets the mentors to be very vulnerable and honest is by knowing that they're not specifically labeling themselves. So it's actually like unvarnished thoughts that we get permission to share with you all.
NSG: Okay? Cool. Yeah.
Meg Hall: Then one ask on that, I think. But for my part, I don't know. If you guys will agree to this. I think it's great that to do that, but just give feedback on one thing, which is, if they some mentor say one company like, say, for instance, brio is getting defensive on on some
NSG: Yes!
Meg Hall: Then I would love to know that because that might be, you know. A normal reaction. Right? We get
NSG: Yes.
Meg Hall: Not telling us what to do, or that we're doing shit
Chloe Lannert: Do you have my slides
NSG: It's almost. It's almost like you're
Chloe Lannert: My slides.
NSG: It's almost like you're on our team. And I love this because we actually do do that. So whenever there is glaring feedback that could be concerning and timely meaning like this. This founder isn't showing up properly to meetings, or they're presenting themselves in a way that is either inaccurate or inappropriate, and they should correct it to get more value from their future conversations. We will go and and jump in, but I'll do that on a case by case basis help each of you out. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: So the the main areas where you'd receive feedback before that end date is, if you're not articulating your business well, like, if you're spending too much of the meeting, trying to get the mentor to understand what you're doing to jump in after day, one for a couple of companies with that in the past. Just a little elevator pitch workshop. Make sure the storytelling is is landing correctly, and you're getting people to a place of understanding where they can actually be helpful.
Chloe Lannert: And then, yeah, any defensiveness or or issues that are are making the meetings unproductive. That's that's where we'll jump in early. We won't let you make the same mistakes in terms of not taking advantage of the meetings. We won't let you do that but beyond that mentor madness is time blocked like this.
Chloe Lannert: So you have the chance to like. Look back at all this data like Mentor. Madness as a whole is built for that. So in the past it used to be designed as like mentor office hours once a week, and you'd come in and meet a couple of people and totally change your business. And then the next week you'd meet a couple more people. So the the reason for this really high density session is is. So you can
Chloe Lannert: sit down and look at all the data together. And we're also going to give you an exercise at the end of mentor madness. When we give you that feedback to help you prioritize and understand what needs to happen next, what hypotheses are the most important to test further, what action items need to need to happen now, what can be for later. So we have resources available for all of that
Meg Hall: Perfect. I just want to make sure we gather the right amount of data that we are able to gather the data. And one of
NSG: Good.
Meg Hall: I'm sorry I'm taking the phone, but
NSG: Go ahead!
Meg Hall: 1. 1 other question I had was like, is it helpful to? So
Meg Hall: what might happen is like we have an advice for someone who is like you know, contrary to another advice. Is that helpful for us to confront the opinions in like? Say, I talk with Carlo, he says a to me, and then I talk with uncle. He says. B. Should I tell uncle? Oh, Carlo told us, told me a what do you think like? Why are you so disagreeing?
Meg Hall: I have a question. Usually I usually ask right now.
NSG: Say it with your chest. I can't hear you
Meg Hall: Oh, I I usually say, like, I usually ask like, if they're getting encountered things, because usually it doesn't matter what the final advice is usually what matters is the rationale as to how they got there, like what
NSG: Yes.
Meg Hall: That they followed, because that's usually way more informative than the final outcome. So they're probably might even have like similar different outcomes. But there, if you follow their logical step of like, you know, 3rd step is different. And you're like, all right, I'll do the 1st 2, you know. I guess it's
NSG: Breakdown. Okay, well.
NSG: this, I think this will become more clear over time as we go through our the remaining advice that Chloe is gonna walk through, because one thing that's gonna happen for sure is each meeting you're gonna be prepared with exactly what you want to talk to them about.
NSG: and you'll know how to make adjustments on the fly if you get conflicting perspectives. And you're like, Hey, like Alex, the answer to your questions. Yes, you can do that, you probably won't for every conversation, but for some it might be helpful to say, I got this feedback about this specific thing with my business from this person's perspective. I'd like to get yours
NSG: right? So that's okay. But there's a there's a bunch of jazz that's gonna happen here with how you all prepare for these meetings
Meg Hall: Thanks, thanks. I have one answer to Alex, and a question of my own. So I've said this before. I, Trevor, try to never over index to one person's opinion. Yeah, someone tells you something totally contrary to what you're already doing. Good. Write it down, forget about it. If you hear it 5 more times, and maybe consider doing something about it right? Even then it could be someone who is very experienced, very, very knowledgeable in the space, but just wrong about whatever the thing is they're telling you. Asking, why? Is the most important thing?
Meg Hall: And then my question obviously, this is our decision to make eventually. But what would you say to the strategy of picking? Maybe one person who really knows your space really believes in what you're doing, and one person
NSG: Yeah.
Meg Hall: Business. The shit you guys suck, you're gonna fail deliberately as a strategy to make sure you're covering all your bases
NSG: Maybe. Maybe. Yeah, that's up to you. You'll you'll know if that makes sense or not, and you'll have to use your judgment. But Chloe is. Gonna talk more about this. But you all are gonna have a chance to activate what we refer to as lead mentors. So there's some people you're gonna deputize to be way more involved with you and your business. And it's kind of like you're gonna ask them the Prom, you know, kind of thing so we'll we'll figure that out in a minute.
NSG: Let's keep going
Chloe Lannert: All right, that is, that is it for the Eir section into mentor madness. Prep.
Chloe Lannert: So this this session does not go back to the end of time. This session didn't exist for Neil's 1st 3 programs or so. And you know how you see, like the rules at the hotel pool. And you're like, why are those rules there? And you know that there must be some bizarre story of someone just acting like a fool at the pool, and you're like, Oh, this is why
NSG: Oh, I got stories
Chloe Lannert: Why, yeah, why, why, they're they're telling us this. This is that. So? This is based on experience of of founders not taking advantage of their meetings and not getting the value that they wanted out of these sessions. So for the next, like, half hour or so, we're gonna dive into just more of that psychology going into it, how you should be approaching it and tips to to take advantage of this specific process
NSG: Big vote for your undivided attention for this part in particular, guys, because
NSG: all of the founders up till now have behaved in a way that have set us up to have these quality mentors come back to help you if this goes wrong, or if this is not handled well, there is an actual risk that you'll impact the next program with a founders because the mentors won't want to come back.
NSG: We specifically get feedback from our mentors that they like working with us in our program because of how respectful and prepared our founders come to these sessions. And there are examples of people actively disengaging from certain techsart programs because of the lack of decorum and respect. That they're getting from the founders that they meet with.
NSG: So this is very important
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, this is also like Neil and I, personal network to some degree. So we we really care about these people and and want you to get all the value that you can out of them. He! He! Yeah. Neil's brought in some some awesome folks.
Chloe Lannert: So beforehand high level, you're going to create a way to track mentor research and follow up. We'll get more into the details of what that is going to look like, how you're going to collaborate there. But there will be a center for information on all of these mentors that you'll be putting together as a group.
Chloe Lannert: You'll be sending intro and thank you emails to each mentor. So on the topic of sending agendas and exercising that muscle of of really understanding how you're gonna use each block of time. Expectation is that each mentor receives an intro email from you 24 to 48 h ahead of time and a thank you. Within 24 to 48 h of the end of that meeting
Chloe Lannert: back to the FAQ. Docs. If you haven't gotten the chance to sit down and get that started. Now's the time. Sit down. What are common questions you get? Try to anticipate things that people will want to dig into and prepare your answers to try and make the most of your time.
Chloe Lannert: And you're also going to create objectives for each meeting based on the mentors experience great places to start. Here are your Okrs. The screening committee feedback that Neil shared early like selection process feedback that Neil shared earlier. These are all great things to come in armed with to help sort of match up your
Chloe Lannert: The challenges you're facing in your business with the mentors experience.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: during the meetings gonna kick off with a really clean elevator pitch you all have been practicing. You're all in a good spot keep rehearsing that make sure it feels clean, and as you move through meetings.
Chloe Lannert: keep workshopping it, making sure that you're you're able to articulate what you're doing really. Well.
NSG: Sometimes the mentors will step in and tell you they don't need to hear it because they've already looked you up or read your email. That's okay.
NSG: So some would appreciate hearing your pitch and explanation of your business. Others might just jump in and want to get right into what you want to talk about.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: So elevator pitch format.
Chloe Lannert: Another huge thing.
Chloe Lannert: don't talk the whole time. So you're doing a lot of preparation. You have your questions ready, but make sure you're leaving space for the mentors to speak and communicate a lot of times. We'll see founders want to spend 5 to 10 min explaining what they're doing, what they're up to latest updates. But that's really not a good use of time. So keeping that intro really efficient. So the mentor can share what wisdom they have to impart will
Chloe Lannert: make the whole experience a lot better, and and mentors should not feel like they're they're fighting to talk. You guys are obviously really excited to talk about your businesses as you should be. But just being conscious of this, this is a piece of feedback we we've gotten in the past from mentors. It's that they aren't able to get a word in. And then that's a waste of feedback you could have gotten and
Chloe Lannert: sort of data you could have collected
NSG: Does anyone here have any thoughts on ways to account for the risk of speaking for too long? Anything? You all might be able to do any suggestions.
NSG: I see a hand in there
Meg Hall: I've got a question for this one. Can you hear me, by the way, or
NSG: Yep.
Meg Hall: If if we find that they're just like asking us those questions right away, talking by answering and
Meg Hall: like. Obviously, I have to clarify everything on behalf. So it's going a little bit too far ahead.
Meg Hall: are we? You know. Is it okay for
NSG: Yeah.
Meg Hall: You look. You know we've done about 5 min of me. Talking is okay. If I ask you some questions like, maybe they lose track of time
NSG: Yes, so you can redirect the conversation to make the most of the time, just like with jobs to be done. Right? So you can say, Hey, I I really want to make sure I address everything you're asking me about, but I also have a few things I want to make sure we accomplish during this time. If if it's alright with you, I'd like to follow up afterwards. To address the questions that you're asking now, so I can focus on a few other things, on the agenda
Meg Hall: That's nice.
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful.
Meg Hall: Yeah, it's your meeting. So you're in control of it. If they try to take control of it.
NSG: If you want, and you like them, sure let them. But I think this is your meeting to lead and to run
Meg Hall: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: Awesome.
NSG: By the way, the other suggestion I would have is you should time your response.
NSG: So you should. You should time the way like how much time you're spending to actually respond. Because I think I've noticed that some of you are probably aren't aware of how long winded you are in response to certain questions you're getting, and you might need to deliberately practice having concise responses to questions
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, whether that's a little like stopwatch on your screen. Whatever whatever needs to happen there, it's easy to set up just something to be conscious of.
NSG: I saw a hand, maybe is that is that Antoine?
Meg Hall: Yeah. How long does the watch?
Meg Hall: 30 seconds a minute.
NSG: You you I'll let you decide. But yes, I think about 30 seconds is is a good amount of time to shoot, for
NSG: if not less
Meg Hall: And another tip is, be comfortable with silence
NSG: Be comfortable with silence. Yes, pregnant pause
Meg Hall: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, that's actually something our CEO does, really. Well, David Cohen, he let zooms be silent.
Chloe Lannert: awesome. So moving on you can get value out of every meeting. We're gonna give you a giant lookbook of a bunch of people to start your research. And some people are, gonna look really well aligned with your business and some people. It's not gonna totally make sense. Why, we've set up this meeting. But all these people are in these sessions for a reason, have landed really well with founders in the past. And
Chloe Lannert: It's a great opportunity to learn more about different people's backgrounds and different perspectives on different aspects of your business. These folks have been working with startups for a long, long time, and have a ton of value to add. And then another critical thing.
Chloe Lannert: if they can't help, they probably know someone who can help. So these are people with really expansive networks who are really again. It's that that generosity that give. First, st they're really looking to activate those networks on behalf of these companies. So, approaching each mentor with curiosity and leaning into the info you have on how to how they could potentially be helpful.
Chloe Lannert: Will will only provide value for you
NSG: A few more stories here. So we in our debriefs sometimes. You know, we have mentors that are interested in, you know, investing in some of the companies, or joining them or working with them.
NSG: but sometimes, when that interest is expressed, you'll have other mentors in the same conversation. Say, well, this founder showed up, not knowing who I was. It was super disrespectful to me, or like clearly just didn't, hadn't done their homework, or didn't display any interest, and that could dissuade someone from wanting to work with you. If you're if you're treating some people differently than others, and in a favorable, you know, fashion that comes off as either more transactional
NSG: or something like that. So just know that these mentors talk to one another
NSG: as well. And it's really important to treat all of them with the same level of kind of respect. That you do so. Very important to be consistent on that front. And even if there's someone you're like, this person is not relevant for me to speak to they might know someone who is
NSG: so so find a way to make it valuable. If you're truly unsure of a value, and you are deeply questioning why, we would introduce you to someone on this list, talk to us about it.
NSG: and then we can actually have a heart to heart about it, to really decide if it's worth your time, but that it almost never happened
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. And this list has gone through constant iterations. You guys will will see mentor madness, debrief sessions
Chloe Lannert: Thursday of week 4. That's where we sit down as as a class and get your feedback on mentors. Make sure they're still sort of up to standard. And like, when I was putting together this list for this mentor madness. I went back to that. Those debrief notes. And I'm like, Okay, who's who's like getting even better? Who maybe needs to take a breather sit this one out. This list is constantly constantly being iterated. So we're we're
NSG: You. Yeah, you all influence who gets invited back like you all are, gonna help us determine. If there's any mentors we need to remove or mentors, we need to prop up and say, Hey, like you've been awesome. We want to thank you even more and get you more involved. So that that's part of your previous founders that have helped out to get to this point.
Chloe Lannert: Absolutely.
Chloe Lannert: All right.
Meg Hall: When when we receive people who want to be a mentor, who should we send them to?
Meg Hall: I just you fluent. Okay, wonderful.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, beautiful. So.
Meg Hall: Sorry I was I was. Is there? Are you gonna go over like the actual logistics and kind of order of operations later? I don't wanna ask questions if that's going to be covered later
Chloe Lannert: Yes, we will, we will. So
Chloe Lannert: we are going to research the mentors. We're not going to ask them for an elevator pitch of their background. You should come in with a level of familiarity if they do choose to introduce themselves. That's great. But you should have an understanding of where they're currently at last couple of roles what their background brings to the table. We do have some pretty well populated lookbooks for you to go through as a baseline for you to start your research. So this we're not
Chloe Lannert: putting this all on you to start from square one here, but coming in with an understanding of who's up next is going to be really important in making a good 1st impression
NSG: Does.
NSG: This is true not only from inter madness, but all of your other meetings with other stakeholders, including investors. If you go into a meeting, and you lead it with asking them, asking the person to tell you about them.
NSG: You haven't done your homework
NSG: when I meet with people who want something for me, and I have to explain my life story to them, or some version of my resume when it's easily accessible online. And you could have read that beforehand and save us a ton of time. That's already a like a bad start to a conversation interaction
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I I don't know how relevant this example is, but one of one of our Chicago mentors. He was a character I don't know if there's a good way to explain. Harper Reed to
NSG: Oh!
Chloe Lannert: Audio.
Chloe Lannert: But he, his whole bit was like, I'm Google-able on purpose.
Chloe Lannert: like, not everyone's going to carry that energy of of being really, intentionally like online. But the message still rings true. Like, if if these people are Googleable, you should Google them.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
NSG: Cool.
Chloe Lannert: All right.
Chloe Lannert: Same deal. We kind of got into this already. Be prepared to hear criticism and and don't take it personally. One of our another
Chloe Lannert: mentor from back in the day would would always say, I love the founder. I hate the business
NSG: No.
Chloe Lannert: That is a line that was used. They're really not criticizing you as a person. They know that Neil picks good people and they'll have very individual reactions to your businesses. So these reactions are going to be all across the board. Some people are going to love you and get it. And some people are going to be confused or negative. You're really going to be all over the board. Both positive and negative feedback should be treated with
Chloe Lannert: respectable grains of salt consideration prioritization. Just take it all carefully. Another another huge thing here is people won't always say that type of of negative feedback to your face.
Chloe Lannert: So sometimes when people get those feedback docs at the end of Metro madness, they're kind of confused, sometimes upset like, why why wouldn't they say this directly to me
NSG: Yes.
Chloe Lannert: And the reality is your time. With each mentor is so constrained.
Chloe Lannert: 25 min is not a lot of time to get in deep with the business. Understand exactly what the feedback is. Let let things marinate. So we have those breaks built in. That I'll get into. But we. We have breaks built in, so mentors can sort of collect their thoughts, grab water whatever they need to do. But they'll come to that. Our our debriefs at the end of each session with a more calcified opinion and more actionable next steps, which is why we have that extra session to get additional feedback. So
Chloe Lannert: our intention here is to almost take you into like the IC ish
NSG: Investment Committee
Chloe Lannert: Behind the curtain. Give you really unfiltered feedback. That whether it's like social convention or time or awkwardness that people aren't able or willing to say to your face. So we really want with our anonymization. And these these separate debriefs. We really want to make sure you're getting like the rawest, most impactful feedback that you can get, so don't get offended. It's all well intentioned, and is all
Chloe Lannert: designed to to help your business grow and
NSG: Yeah. And and and also just don't
NSG: like 1. 1 big mistake I see people make is they they give feedback they don't like, and they try to find out who said it.
NSG: and like hunt them down, and either like call them out, or like, put them on a list, or something like that. And I'm like, no chill chill like it's literally just what somebody thinks it's not meant to like cut too deep.
NSG: So just really don't don't take any of this personally, because they will be critical, and not all of it will make you feel good to hear. But it's super important for you to hear, because it's probably what someone else thinks too
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, no one here is giving up a workday to make people feel bad.
NSG: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: So approaching everything with humility and curiosity and huge one here say, when you don't know
Chloe Lannert: if there's something that you're asked that isn't like easily accessible off the top of your head. Say that you don't know. Don't fumble around, make something up, whatever approaching hard questions with that level of honesty is is great, and it gives you the opportunity to follow up in the follow up email or second call whatever that looks like to dive in once you have the answer.
Chloe Lannert: So a lot of founders will try to sort of smoke and mirrors it. That's a bad use of everyone's time and prevents you from getting good data about your actual approach.
Chloe Lannert: Huge one. Do ask questions.
Chloe Lannert: don't ask for money. We do see investments come out of mentor badness. Never in that 1st meeting so
Chloe Lannert: many of these folks are angels, but a lot of their operating philosophy centers on facetime with companies over time. So start these relationships, treat every relationship with respect, follow up with people, keep them on. Your investor updates with consent, and and keep them in in the loop and in the ecosystem. But you're not going to get a check during mentor madness.
Chloe Lannert: People will not signal interest to invest on the call. And it's just tacky and awkward to to ask for money straight away. If people ask if you're raising, you can signal that. But the the follow up in the relationship building is is generally on you and
Chloe Lannert: people aren't aren't jumping on these calls for immediate deal flow. They're they're looking to build relationships and
Chloe Lannert: let that sort of pan out over time.
Chloe Lannert: Neil. Anything to double tap on here.
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful
NSG: We're good
Meg Hall: How like, how long are these relationships? Are they for the tech stars time? Or could you also extend it beyond the techstar?
NSG: It's it's throughout the program. And then any relationship after is up to you to manage and to like Foster
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, lots of these folks are on multiple textures, companies, cap tables, a lot still talk to companies pretty regularly. They're all still gonna remain in the lookbook and be accessible for one off questions. If you need we can talk a little bit more about
Chloe Lannert: follow up and like what those extended relationships look like. But again, as everything here, these relationships are owned by you and focuses on double opt-ins, making sure you're respecting people's time, and asking for help when you need it.
Chloe Lannert: Good, beautiful, all right.
Chloe Lannert: Same. Again, people have different price. Take it with a grain of salt. Don't argue with people. So on this defensiveness. Front ankar. I really like your why of like getting deeper into sort of lines of logic that you don't necessarily agree with, and and trying to understand better, defensiveness just isn't a good look. And it reflects badly on you and the team if if you get overly defensive or combative.
Chloe Lannert: So yeah, just approaching people with respect, understanding that different viewpoints
Chloe Lannert: Are there for a reason?
Chloe Lannert: And then another sort of etiquette hygiene thing. Be really aware of where you're taking these calls from. So make sure you're in a quiet room. You have good Internet, your backgrounds, not distracting. Keep it. Keep it clean. We've in the past heard of founders with digital backgrounds that were like blindingly white little things like that, making sure that
Chloe Lannert: everything is easy and manageable and and professional. When you're you're jumping into these calls, and and
Chloe Lannert: yeah, avoid
NSG: We'll do to to elaborate further. We've had founders try to take calls like walking down the street on their phone. We've had founders in coffee shops that are too loud, and it's hard for them to have a conversation. We've had. Founders try to take these calls from the car when they're on the go.
NSG: None of these are appropriate for these sessions. Those can be appropriate for more casual interactions or with team members or things like that not appropriate for mental madness. So make sure you're in a stable place with reliable Internet, and that you've done the work to be prepared for the meeting and conversation.
NSG: and if, for some reason that can't happen.
NSG: for whatever circumstance that comes up, make sure it's communicated beforehand, both to us and to the mentor so that we can all manage it together. Okay. So we didn't always have this slide here. We didn't always have to say this, but it has happened enough now, where we've dedicated the moment to explain these types of things that happen and and why that isn't okay.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, you are. Gonna be cameras on for 2 and a half hours. For these blocks
Chloe Lannert: we have breaks. We have breathers. But
Chloe Lannert: really you're you're showing up here.
Chloe Lannert: Lead mentors. Okay, this is Chris to to dive deeper into your question after mentor madness, you'll have the opportunity to select one to 3 is typically the numbers we see mentors to be your lead mentors. So this is a double opt in. I've heard a bachelor sort of metaphor used where you're like giving someone the rose. You're inviting someone to be your lead mentor.
Chloe Lannert: Whether mentors will be
Chloe Lannert: open to it is dependent on their time and interest depending on the size of your team. You'll either you'll want in that one to 3 range. More than that can get overwhelming, really, really, easily, so definitely, wouldn't go over 3. And the expectation there is that you meet with them weekly or bi-weekly for the duration of program. Any post program. Involvement is negotiated between the 2 of you. After the fact, we've seen lead mentors become advisors.
Chloe Lannert: Angel investors join the teams. There's a lot of opportunity in these people, but making sure that everyone's on the same page and comfortable with the amount of time they're committing is really really important.
Chloe Lannert: how this works is as you move through mentor madness, you're gonna have some good meetings. You're gonna have some okay meetings. And then you're gonna have some really great meetings where you really click with the person you want to spend time with them. You want to dive deeper into their background. Let them know.
Chloe Lannert: and you can invite them to become your lead mentor and meet with you more regularly throughout program. So it's as simple as an email. Follow up, we're going to ask that you don't ask someone to be your lead mentor on the call. You want to give people time to digest and don't want to force a response right away, especially if folks are busy.
Chloe Lannert: Some mentors will be able to lead mentor multiple companies. Some will only be able to do one. Some won't have the capacity at all. So under like making sure you're not offended if someone doesn't say yes, it's it's all based on their time and their commitment level again. All of our mentors are are super busy people.
Chloe Lannert: so being respectful there. But these people are an awesome resource. If you have someone with a ton of experience in your industry or really interesting perspective that you want to hear more of, definitely, ask them to be a lead mentor and again. This whole process is owned by you.
Chloe Lannert: The team will not match you with anyone. We won't set up future meetings for you. This is once you have your initial mentor madness meeting. It's on you to make those choices about who you'd like to continue your relationship with and on you to to execute on that
NSG: Yeah, Chloe, how many more slides we have left? We got 4 min
Chloe Lannert: Is it not? 2 and a half
NSG: Is it? 2 and a half? Oh.
NSG: we have a little more time. Yeah, you're right.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, beautiful. Any any questions on lead mentors cause this is important and
Chloe Lannert: typically something where people get lost
NSG: Yeah, there's a big reason why we give you all the responsibility to handle these relationships because you're gonna have to do that, anyway, after our program, and then beyond, with all the other mentors, you get access to so best for us not to handhold the process and give you all that ownership and responsibility.
Meg Hall: What is the I guess I don't say expected, but, like.
Meg Hall: what is the what should we? Let's like time, commitment per week, or Bi weekly like, what does that like look like? Normally
NSG: Yeah for the lead. The lead mentor expectation is different than all the others. All the others are up to their own accord.
NSG: Right? So there's no actual mandate for how much time they're committing to you.
NSG: The lead mentors is a slightly different commitment level, which has been explained to all the mentors, if any of them agree to it, which is like a regular interaction with you at some kind of cadence, whether it's weekly or bi-weekly
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. So typically, most people will meet for 30 min to an hour once every week or 2,
Chloe Lannert: and that cadence is decided based on both of your schedules.
Chloe Lannert: Good
Ferrona Lie: I'll just
Ferrona Lie: add, you don't have to have lead mentor I choose not to at the time, and so, if you don't feel like it. Don't don't force it if it doesn't happen because it had happened where we asked. I think 2 people at the time to become our lead mentor. Both of them just weren't available for time related constraints. It has nothing to do with other companies in the cohort, and so we decided not to move forward with it, and so you don't have to force this to happen.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, absolutely that. That's a really great call out, I think. Someone asked me before signing the PA if we'd ever force them to meet with mentors, or like match them with people that they had to meet with throughout program. That's that's not what we're doing here. These are only if they add value to you.
Chloe Lannert: Cool. Okay.
Chloe Lannert: let's dive into some common complaints from mentors, or or like real feedback that we've gotten after Mentor madness sessions.
Chloe Lannert: They wasted the whole meeting with me, trying to understand their business. So this is back to. I think it was Alex's comment earlier. If someone can't understand what you're doing, we'll let you know, so you can workshop it immediately, and take advantage of the time in your future meetings.
Chloe Lannert: it was clear that they didn't know who I was. So again, if if someone's Googleable, you should Google them, you should understand what you're coming into. This is part of why we instituted the intro emails to make sure that everyone's feeling respected and understood.
Chloe Lannert: They asked me for a personal favor for a loved one. Please don't do this. This is just professional hygiene. You're meeting these people for the 1st time now is now is not the time to be asking for for jobs, for partners, or or whatever else might be happening here. Just basic decorum to keep it clean.
Chloe Lannert: They talked the entire time, and I barely got a word in. These folks are here to share their experiences and their wisdom. If you aren't letting them get a word in edgewise. It's a waste of everyone's time, because then it's just a pitch practice for you, not not a meeting.
Chloe Lannert: I'm not sure how to help them because they didn't have appointed. Ask so back to the clarity of the agenda and understanding of what you're trying to achieve with each meeting that's super super important here. If you're just like laying out your business on the table and and asking people to fix something like that, that's not.
Chloe Lannert: No one can really move the needle with that. So the more clarity you can bring to the what you're trying to achieve through each meeting, the better it'll be, and the more the mentors will be equipped to help you out
Chloe Lannert: alright. After the meetings. You're gonna send a thank you. Email and include any follow ups or next steps that they gave you. So if they asked for your financial model so they could review it, or if they ask for a deck or any other materials that they're going to help you out with. Make sure you send it if they want, follow up on if there, if you throughout, an I don't know but I'll find out on any of their questions. Make sure that's addressed here. Make it clear that you you
Chloe Lannert: resonated with the the material. And and
Chloe Lannert: yeah, just a nice. Thank you. We'll show examples of of what good emails look like in just a minute. This is another huge one that we got into in our last cohort. So
Chloe Lannert: advisory shares
Chloe Lannert: most cohorts. We see a company get really really excited about someone, and they're like, Oh, I need this person on my cap table. I need them to be an advisor. I need them more involved immediately, and and they'll be too heavy handed with offering advisory shares out.
Chloe Lannert: We don't need to be doing that.
Chloe Lannert: It's
Chloe Lannert: if you're that excited about someone you can invite them to invest. But typically it's best to just wait it out. These people are volunteering. There's no need to jump in like that at this stage. If a mentor asks for advisory shares
Chloe Lannert: tell us, it's very, very rare. But it has happened that a mentor has tried to solicit or ask for advisory shares, whatever that looks like. We have policies against that. We that that's not okay. Explicitly, not okay. So you need to tell us immediately, and we'll handle that at the team level. If anyone's asking for for equity for techstars mentorship that's not in the cards for us.
NSG: Yeah, it's it's it's more common out here in the bay after this happen in different interactions. So we've had to overcome that a little bit
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: and just to reiterate dead weight and advisors that don't really make sense on your cap table can be really, really damaging for future investment rounds. So keeping that cap table clean is really, really important.
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, that's the high level. We're moving into part 3, any questions before we
Chloe Lannert: head into the research process. Yeah, let's go
Meg Hall: For these mentors. I'm kind of curious like, what's their incentive here? Are they paid like eirs, or are they doing out of
NSG: They're not paid
Meg Hall: And
NSG: Yeah, no, they're not paid. It's it's all gift first, st
NSG: like some love the opportunity to, you know. Learn more about businesses that they might want to invest in others just really enjoy giving back and wanting to be helpful, which is, I think, the vast majority of them and then there are some that we try to snuff out that are in it, for, like
NSG: the aesthetic of being associated with the top tier accelerator and putting Texters on our Linkedin profile.
NSG: We really try our best to remove people who seem to have that aspiration.
NSG: It's okay to be proud of your affiliation with techstars so long as you're genuinely earning it. But we definitely try to remove folks that are you know not not authentically giving, first, st as a part of this
Meg Hall: I didn't go ahead.
Meg Hall: Just a quick follow for those mentors. How do you gauge like their experience as a mentor before? Is it like
NSG: Great question. That's a great question. So the way that we do it typically and this can vary depending on our experience with them already is. If we don't know them well or at all.
NSG: I will choose a company that I think they can help, that an alum that I I trust, and I'll have them have a meeting with them, and then I'll debrief, or one of us will debrief with that alum they go. How did that go? Were they helpful? Do you think they'd be a good mentor for us to get involved in techstars? So that's their evaluation period? And also, I tend to have a conversation with the mentor as well before we include them in any of these activities.
NSG: Does that make sense
Meg Hall: Yeah. Oh, I have a question I want to clarify. So the mentors are not paid by tech service. Correct?
Chloe Lannert: No.
NSG: No, they're not
Meg Hall: The Eir's Bar
NSG: Yes.
Meg Hall: Okay.
Meg Hall: okay? So I have a question. So if the mentors are not being paid, and they also don't get any equity. So essentially, they don't have any skin in the game.
Meg Hall: So how do we make sure that there is a long term commitment from their side? And they're not just like dabbling into a few conversations enjoying it, and maybe maybe they are not going to, you know, help us for the long term, and not there for a long term relationship. So how do you guys make sure that happens
NSG: Yeah, we don't make sure that happens at all. That's up to you. You have to form these relationships with them. That's the whole nature of this. We can't guarantee that they're long term committed to you. That is the nature of you all deciding to have that kind of relationship post program.
NSG: The reason that mentors are so involved in the techstars network is because they enjoy giving 1st and they enjoy helping companies succeed.
NSG: I was a mentor for techstars for many, many years before I joined as an employee. So before 2019, between 2010 and 2018, I did mentor madness as a mentor for those companies in Chicago, and so many other people are like me, and like Mer, and like all these other folk who don't get paid anything, but will go out of their way to be helpful to you because they want you to succeed, and they care about you. But you have to be the kind of person that is worthy of that help.
NSG: So it's really important that you understand that, and that you internalize the notion of give 1st in this process. Because if if it's about a transaction, or if it's about who gets what out of what, and it's more about some sort of 0 sum game between you and them. That's not the ethos or culture that we have at techstars.
NSG: Does that make sense, Piersh?
Meg Hall: Yeah, I mean, just a follow up question. So how do you check the quality of these mentors like if they don't have any skill in the game, you know. I'm sure you have a process in like in the background
NSG: Yeah, like we said before, it's based on the founders in the past who've worked with them and whether they've been valuable and whether they pass the check of give 1st culturally.
NSG: So in the same way that you have met all of these people who are give 1st with us that have already done workshops, or that you've interacted with or hearing from us. It's the same deal with these mentors based on previous founders telling us these are, give 1st types as opposed to people who are not, and more transactional
Meg Hall: Got it
Ferrona Lie: Can I? I can give an example. There's so a couple of things. The 1st one is, invariably there's going to be new mentors in each batch just because of
Ferrona Lie: many reasons, and most of them is because you know, their availability availability as well. During my cohort there's 1 mentor that was new and was not good, and not because of his background. It was just his attitude towards it. He's a partner at a Vc. Company. Everyone was so excited to meet him, and he just was not engaging well with the founders. And so by the following batch, Neil and the team basically didn't invite him back. It's pretty strict.
Ferrona Lie: and so I would just trust the process, even if you meet them. And it's not going to be like a good conversation. The reality is when you're fundraising, and if you're fundraising, you're going to run into these people. And so it's a good practice, anyway, to handle these conversations again, because this is someone that has
Ferrona Lie: a name. He's a partner in a venture capital firm, which he just was not behaving well. And so you'll probably run into some of these individuals, anyways, in your actual entrepreneur journey. So
Esmaeil Sadeghi: May I say something here as well like, based on my understanding? Actually, the mentorship is free of charge during the program. So if there would be some like post program activities like some mentorship. There has to be some other setup there like it can be like. Anyway, there are some kind of like consultancy there, like consultants. Probably they would charge somehow or
NSG: I would advise against that. I would advise against that for the most part a smile not even not even even after the program. I do not recommend you all try to get into any business transaction with these mentors unless there's very clear, obvious, disproportionate value. That is objective, that you can have referrals about and like really validate. It's super rare instead, like Merit said yesterday, like I said last week, and like I will say, every time you ask me about it, rather than giving up anything for your connection with them.
NSG: Get them to invest
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Since
NSG: If they believe in you enough, they should put some skin in the game and participate in your next round, or put up an angel check, even if it's a small amount, get them on your cap table so that they have a stake in your success. That's beyond just hoping that you know they actually deliver value later, and you want to give them either advisor shares or a fee for some consulting work. I do not recommend that at all.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: True, no, that definitely
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, and these folks are coming in with an understanding of your stage, and that they shouldn't be soliciting from you across the board like mentors should never be charging you consulting fees even after program, unless you're years out. And it's a totally different ball game. But these folks are familiar with the nature of a precede company's runway. And they they're not viewing you guys as as business. And if they are, then that's a problem that our team will address
Chloe Lannert: beautiful, and many, many folks do continue their relationships with mentors. Well, after program, even just for free, they'll just reach out when they need something. And these folks are really just interested in helping startups, whether it's from their past experience as a founder or working with founders like like we said in week. One founder energy is really contagious, and a lot of people do just want to be around it and help shape the next generation of startups and
NSG: But they won't help everyone, cause not everyone like not everyone is enjoyable to help. So, to be clear, you have to be the kind of founder that is a pleasure to support and to interact with and have meetings with. If you are transactional, or treat things in a in a way that isn't particularly enjoyable for them. They're they're gonna they're gonna disconnect
Esmaeil Sadeghi: I have a fundamental question here, following, like what Chris already asked like. So who is a mentor? Basically. So let's say, if they have a successful business already, or some other affiliations, or what
Esmaeil Sadeghi: already said yesterday. Usually a founder is really like a successful founder would be really busy. Basically, they don't have time for any other activities outside of the business. So the question here is like, so how is like the experience of the the level of engagement from the mentor side.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: How how reliable we can, how reliable they are, how much we can rely on their experiences
Esmaeil Sadeghi: if they have all these some successful businesses of why should they spend some time with us? With
NSG: That. That's what makes us special at techstars. That's that's that's why we are worth like the equity that you know we're getting for investing in you is we do the work to vet people to bring to you who are bought into supporting you and helping you in this way. That it's rare to have that. You're right. And and you're sneaking suspicions from the questions I'm hearing is exactly right like.
NSG: how do these people even have the time. And it's because they care about you through techstars, and they're willing to work with us. And again we have to. Every time you're gonna meet you're gonna have at least one bad meeting. You're gonna have one meeting that you didn't like relative to the other ones. And you're gonna tell us that. And we're gonna figure out what to do with that information. And usually it means we're either gonna coach that interest to to success and re-engage with them in a different way, or we're gonna transition them out of our network
NSG: respectfully.
NSG: So we we handle that actively every time
Esmaeil Sadeghi: No, these questions are really coming back from our like bad experience that we had with mentors in the past. I would say, like there were mentors like, because there were some kind of like payments in the background. So they were like trying to like, stretch everything like, let's have some other meetings to discuss it even further. So these were like kind of like a bad, I would say experience, at least on my on our end. To some extent. I don't know how about the others, but yes, I mean, that makes sense. Actually, if there are some mentors like
Esmaeil Sadeghi: with the prestige of like the tech stars, like supporting some companies here
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful. All right. We are a little bit getting into crunch time, so I'll be a little bit quicker with questions. But mentor madness, research.
Chloe Lannert: So 1st off, this is an example of a living schedule that you're going to get this for a previous cohort. But this is what you're going to see in terms of your schedule. So you're going to have the company
Chloe Lannert: up here, and then the mentors you're gonna meet with the time block. So you're gonna have 5 slots here. This will hit your company projects today
Chloe Lannert: for the 1st week, and you'll begin to start researching your mentors and understanding who you're going to be meeting with for week 3 of program
Chloe Lannert: for the breakdown of the calls themselves. You'll have that 2 and a half hour block. You're gonna join about 5 min early to that block. We're gonna put you into breakout rooms on Zoom, and we'll be rotating the founders through different breakout rooms for 25 min meetings and 5 min breaks. You'll have time queues in the zoom chat and
Chloe Lannert: you'll have. You'll have time to like run to the bathroom, whatever we really protect those breaks, and we'll sort of force you out. I'll have some notes in your to do list for next week on making sure you update your zoom fully. So the breakout rooms go smoothly and a little overview page on how to navigate in and out of those breakout rooms seamlessly. But essentially. You'll just show up to the call, and a team member will be there to assign you where you need to go next, all within one one Zoom Meeting
Chloe Lannert: that all that all clear. So we're all in the same meeting. Link and the team will rotate you through your your breakouts
Meg Hall: I have a
Chloe Lannert: Okay. Yeah.
Meg Hall: Ever experimented with 5 min speed dating type met
Chloe Lannert: 5 min meetings.
NSG: These, these, this amount of time doesn't even feel like enough. Yeah, it feels like 5 min. So I promise you, the 25 is already kind of.
NSG: I want to say it's perfected, but we've definitely experimented up and down from here, and 25 is a 100 sweet spot
Chloe Lannert: There are other teams that do 15 min meetings, and their founders just look tired because it's basically pitch practice for them at that point, and they can't really get any insights from the mentors. So we give you just enough time to to learn and then and then move you through. It's gonna feel fast
Meg Hall: I I get that. And, by the way, I'm super long and 25 min will feel like 1 min to me. But 5 min. I've experimented with that, and it's very, very interesting. It's also tiring, but it's interesting. For 5 min.
Meg Hall: I I would if you. If you've not experimented with it. I would suggest you do at some point. It's a it's a different, it does. It's obviously you achieve a different a different board. But you get to see quite a few people now and and and it's i i was against it. I tried it. I loved it
Chloe Lannert: Good to know.
Chloe Lannert: It's good to know
Meg Hall: You guys mentioned like a lookbook where I thought you guys were saying, gonna say, we could like pick out our own mentors. But it looks like you guys already have the mentors scheduled for next week. Can you elaborate on that
Chloe Lannert: Yes, so people are going to be scheduled for you. We've been putting together the schedule for weeks. That lookbook is the San Francisco lookbook. And anyone you feel like you've missed out on, we can facilitate introductions after mentor madness.
Chloe Lannert: So you're you're not. Gonna you're not gonna miss anyone you want to meet. But the lookbook is additional information about the folks you'll be meeting and extras as well, so you can. Begin your research and come into the meetings with all the context that you need
NSG: That's right, Meg. So we hand select.
NSG: like S. Tier mentors, that we know all. We want them to meet, all of you. And then there's a menu of a lot more additional mentors that we can facilitate direct connections with for you. That's like more of like a a la carte
Meg Hall: Guess, maybe logistical question. So this is obviously scheduled. Do you also expect not? Do you expect us to also do that outreach during week 3 or
NSG: After winter, madness.
Chloe Lannert: Sure.
NSG: Week 5 and beyond. Yeah.
Meg Hall: Send out a calendar that I don't know. I think a lot of us have, like just the wrong calendar didn't have any details. I just wanna confirm that the calendar that Vivian sent out is the one that's gonna have Zoom Meetings super logistical one. But we've been like missing shit because
NSG: Vivian posted Chloe in the campfire in the program. Hq. A. Calendar link. How about we just promise to figure that out once and for all after this, so that we can get through the rest of this presentation. Because I think it's important that we cover all of this, and then we'll resolve that after
Chloe Lannert: We'll fix that. That's important.
Chloe Lannert: What was that last question
Meg Hall: No, I mean, even in my zoom, for, like the next 2 weeks, I don't have like Link in there either. So
NSG: Yeah, we'll figure all that out. Yeah, we'll we'll solve that after this
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, cool. So this is an overview of the lookbook that you're gonna get.
Chloe Lannert: This is a high level. Lots of info about everyone in terms of starting the research. The lookbook is a great 1st place to start.
Chloe Lannert: Linkedin is also great. There are some people who have changed roles recently, and their their newest role won't necessarily be reflected on the lookbook just yet. So double check that Linkedin, just in case for each person. And then Google is great. Lots of these folks have blogs, or have written books, or just have other sort of newsworthy things that you wouldn't necessarily be able to find on their Linkedin that it'd be nice to be aware of.
Chloe Lannert: and something huge here that I'm actually going to tap Verona with is crowdsourcing of this research. So this is 2 examples here of this is from our last Oakland class, and this is from Furona's class. Here.
Chloe Lannert: Our previous classes have worked together to build out additional information about these mentors. Put all of this together for, and I'll let you share details about how you, how you made that happen.
Ferrona Lie: Yeah. So this, we only did this for the 40 mentors you're going to meet for sure the Lovebook will have hundreds of people, and you won't be able to do all of these for all of them. And so what we did as a class was, we divided the 40 that we're going to meet among each other. And so each company we had 12 companies at the time, so each company had 3 to 4 mentors that we deep dive into like this is like deep research, not only Linkedin Google.
Ferrona Lie: if you have the time, social media, whatever it is, because you'll find things like, oh, they're like hiking, for instance, and so maybe there's another comp another. There's a company within your cohort that's working on
Ferrona Lie: hacking, related gear. I'm just giving you an example, because then you will be able to tag each other, or at least give personalized note that, hey, this company or this mentor used to work
Ferrona Lie: or co-foundered a food company, and so between each other, you can also like, Hey, you should talk to this one, and this would be a good match and whatnot. This is basically a good forcing function for you to to get to know the mentors. In addition to just looking at the lookbook, because the lookbook is going to be a little bit dizzying to be quite honest with you, and so 3 to 4 mentors that you deep dive into is not going to take that much of your time
Ferrona Lie: so highly recommend doing this. And you guys decide decide also what kind of information you want to collect, we, in addition to Linkedin Links email. There you go. There is also current role companies. School affiliations is important. Because then you can find some common grounds and so highly recommend doing it for for your cohort and
Ferrona Lie: and start there as as a source of truth, I, personally, when I ran mentor madness! I had my zoom here, and then half of my screen. I have a big screen. Have my screen. Has that opened all the time. So I always know who to talk to, what to talk to with the mentor when I'm when I'm talking to them, basically and have it ready
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. And this is not a comprehensive list of everything you can look into, like. Verona mentioned hobbies as well. You could so many things you could dive deeper into. You could leave notes for each other after meetings with people so like if someone has a morning slot and then an afternoon slot the next day you can leave notes on how to best engage with them. But this is owned by you guys. So whoever wants to spin this up and sort of organize and delegate. That's great. This is
Chloe Lannert: just showing you this example. So you know that it doesn't have to be as overwhelming of a task as it initially sounds like highly recommend sort of coordinating amongst amongst yourselves to to break down this task.
Chloe Lannert: Neil, did you have a comment
NSG: Yeah, I was gonna add one final thing. Sometimes they've written articles or books, or have posted videos or talks about certain subjects
NSG: use your ingenuity to either summarize those or to have curiosity about them. One of the worst things that happens for me as a mentor to companies is when they ask me a question that my background has already gone deeply about elsewhere, and I'd love for you to have taken the time to at least be aware of that resource.
NSG: Let alone having watched it beforehand. The most impressive meetings I have are with founders that have truly done their homework on me, and know to engage me more deeply on what's next, rather than something that I could just remind them that I've done in the past. They could go, look up themselves
Chloe Lannert: Amazing
Meg Hall: I was gonna ask, is it supposed to be our whole team that shows up to these? Or is it supposed to be just the CEO
NSG: It's your call.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, so you can divide and conquer, based on what makes sense for you. I recommend assigning, based on the mentors background. So CEO should be point person for all of it, and responsible for delegating out the meetings. But if there's a super technical mentor, and you want to bring in your CTO, or you drop out and the CTO takes it themselves. You're responsible for making they show up, making sure they show up. Have ticked all the boxes and are representing you. Well, but you don't necessarily have to be there for every single call
Meg Hall: Okay.
Chloe Lannert: Beautiful. All right. Internal crms. This is also for owners. So we're we're getting in deep here. Alongside the central research sheet that you'll all share highly. Recommend building out your own personal tracker for intro emails Pre post meeting comms, who the point person is for each mentor and shortlist status if you're interested in making them your lead mentor.
Chloe Lannert: And what Frona also did here is she included. Her key asks and impressions from the meeting. So at a very high level she had additional notes that she was taking throughout the meetings, but super, like at a glance. Impressions and key goals for each meeting were included in this for her as well. So here's like the more digestible view of what she had in there. But of course, this is custom to you. Make it in a way that makes sense for you
Chloe Lannert: and then gonna dive straight into an example. Intro email.
Chloe Lannert: So this set of emails that I'm about to show was sent back to the team by a mentor who said it was the best set of intro, and thank you emails they'd ever received. So just block by block.
Chloe Lannert: they introduce themselves, both team members. Who was doing what? Who was
Chloe Lannert: involved in the company and set the stage for mentor madness.
Chloe Lannert: then a 1 liner and focus. So not just what the company does, but a stage anchor there. So we're working on our early release, which is launching in one week, and we're pre-product market fit.
Chloe Lannert: And then they gave some additional resources for people to dive into if they wanted to. So their website little video, their download link. And these, were clearly like signposted here as to like what they were. I recommend just hyperlinking it in text. So it's easy to understand what people are clicking on
Chloe Lannert: makes it that much cleaner.
Chloe Lannert: And then they went into their core objective. So really clean and obvious, this is what we're trying to accomplish in this meeting.
Chloe Lannert: Then they dove into asks, starting with their okrs. And you guys now also have that selection feedback to go off of. So based on this mentor's background, they built out a list of key questions. So we know you have a deep knowledge in marketing and branding. We'd love help
Chloe Lannert: crafting, messaging, looking at our landing page so like super super clear context about the ask what they're asking the mentor to do. And that shows an understanding of the mentor's background in marketing.
Chloe Lannert: And it just keeps going. So we've got another one. This is all one email brainstorming, how to track metrics, brainstorm some ways that we can implement wellness, productivity, related features so super clear. They're looking for suggestions here.
Chloe Lannert: long-term roadmap on exit strategies. How do we need? How can we set a solid foundation? Do you have any tips on how to avoid mistakes down the road
Chloe Lannert: and a leadership question. So these are 4
Chloe Lannert: very specific questions associated with the larger objective for this one mentor. This is a lot.
Chloe Lannert: So this is, this is kind of like the
Chloe Lannert: like, the Jake level of operation. You don't necessarily have to have something. This specific and detailed for each mentor. But if there's someone you really, you're really excited about highly suggest going in deep like this and at its core the the structure of the Intro context,
Chloe Lannert: objective. And then more specific asks, it's a really, really good way to build out these emails.
Chloe Lannert: And then
NSG: 3 min left, just
Chloe Lannert: Clean sign off. I am so aware. So this is the the little structure that they had going highly recommend. Using this as a baseline, and adding, in what makes sense for you.
Chloe Lannert: and then for the follow up
Chloe Lannert: clean and easy. Say, thanks for for their time.
Chloe Lannert: They got really deep into the takeaways for each of the sort of questions and and points that they hit
Chloe Lannert: so, for, like numbered out, some of these were like quotes from their meeting with the Mentor. But the goal here is to to make the mentor feel listened to. You don't have to do everything that they said, you don't need a conclusive like path to action based on a call within 24 h, but just sharing takeaways of like we understood. We heard you. We appreciate the
Chloe Lannert: insights goes a really long way, especially if you're looking to expand on these relationships later, Neil, are we letting people record
NSG: No, no, so I I don't recommend recording the mentor meetings it. It makes them less likely to be unvarnished with you. You should take notes, but I don't think you should record them. I I highly discourage it, because mentors tend to withhold a lot of thoughts or feedback when they feel like
NSG: there, there's there's that kind of documentation so definitely advise against that but this is one of the most impressive things you can do is summarizing what you think you heard them say in a follow up, because sometimes they'll think about it, and they'll actually change their mind, or they'll have more to add, or they'll correct something. Based on what you interpreted versus what they meant
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. And this invites them to double down and continue the relationship
NSG: Alright!
Chloe Lannert: Wrap it up
Chloe Lannert: next steps and invites them to stay in touch. You can also invite people to join your investor updates
Chloe Lannert: at the end of these wrap up emails. But don't just automatically add people without consent. And you guys are ready.
Chloe Lannert: Got this 1 min to spare.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, Anthony.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, if anyone's willing to switch with us, we are in the morning session we would prefer the afternoon session, because it'll be closer to the end of the day on our side, and
NSG: Fool!
Anthony De Silva: Get our customer meetings done in the morning. That would really help, if if possible.
NSG: Got it. So please respond in base camp if you're willing to help Anthony out and his team with the with the time swap but let's have you guys hop over to the Google call now I know we're about to wrap up. But
NSG: we'll see you in there, and I'll see you all this afternoon
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, we'll jump over. Say, Hi to Google, and I'll jump back on this link afterwards if folks have more mental madness questions after meeting our lovely Google people.
Chloe Lannert: beautiful